now we've been reporting in the last
half hour those new lines coming out
from the White House Israel agreeing to
4H hour military pauses in Northern Gaza
also information about two humanitarian
corridors to allow people to flee the
hostilities so let's head to Washington
let's talk to our state department
correspondent Barbara PL Usher and
Barbara tell us more then in terms of
what the Americans have been saying in
the last little
while what they have said is that
they've reached agreement with the
Israelis to have a 4-Hour pause every
day um in order to allow Palestinians in
Northern Gaza which is where the main
military operation is to flee safely to
the South and they Israel we have been
told would give a three-hour notice
every day when that pause would be uh
and the Palestinians if they wanted to
leave would be taking uh safe passage
corridors which reportedly have actually
been um operating for several days now
but now they would have um a cessation
of military operations um for them to
take those corridors safely to the South
so that's the that's the announcement um
they uh the White House is hoping to be
able to use such pauses to get more Aid
into Gaza um they're hoping to get up to
150 trucks daily of Aid that hasn't
happened yet and also ultimately um
perhaps to use pauses to um facilitate
the release of hostages now it was
reported uh previously that President
Biden had asked the Israeli Prime
Minister for a three-day pause uh in
order to facilitate hostage release but
also to get you know significant amounts
of Aid in um so he's just been asked if
that was indeed the case and he has said
yes in fact he asked Mr Netanyahu for
longer than a three-day pause and when
he was asked whether he was frustrated
with the Israeli Prime Minister he said
this has taken longer than I expected it
to um so you know read into that what
you like but this is definitely
something that the Americans have been
pushing uh relentlessly through the
president through their special Envoy on
the ground through the Secretary of
State to try to get uh not a ceasefire
uh but breaks in the fighting in order
to get Aid in and to help Palestinian
civilians get to Safe areas Barbara as
you were talking I know in the last few
minutes Joe Biden has talked to
reporters there at the White House
before heading off to the helicopter and
exactly as you were reporting there was
asked about that three-day pause for
Gaza and a pause much longer to try to
get hostages out so we will actually
play for viewers that clip here in just
a moment or two but quite clearly in
terms of the pressure from Washington on
Israel's prime minister it is
upping yeah I mean you have seen the
evolution of the the the rhetoric and
the pressure from uh from Washington
over the past month as the situation has
changed as the uh military operation has
led to the kill in of thousands of
Palestinians as the humanitarian crisis
has grown completely dire as the uh un
humanitarian officials said last week uh
there is no more life sustaining
functions in Gaza and so uh the
Americans while they support the Israeli
stance that there cannot be a ceasefire
at this point because they say that
would benefit Hamas allow it to regroup
they have really been pressing for a
break in the fighting in order to
address this dire situation to get a
significant amount of Aid in but also
again to try to get the hostages
released and there's been reports
floating around uh lately about perhaps
a deal in the making we can't confirm
that but those those talks are very
active so most definitely the pressure
for some kind of break in the fighting
longer than an hour or two which is what
Mr Netanyahu referred to in an interview
earlier this week long enough to
actually get something done uh has been
coming from the White House and from the
state department Barbara pleas user
there in Washington thanks very much for
that